Hello and welcome to Workbook 3.3.
And this one, we're going to create a custom constraint annotation.
In fact, we'll be creating to one annotation will be used to prevent the user or to prevent users that
are under 18 from signing up to our platform.
And another annotation will prevent the client from inputting a username that has special characters
or uppercase characters.
This is, I'm guessing, going to be one of the longer workbooks.
So let's just jump straight into task number one, which is to create an annotation named Age.
I'll stop right there and create an annotation.
Called Edge Java and to define any annotation in Spring Boot, you just got to use the at interface
keyword and right now we have an annotation.
It's as simple as that, but right now our annotation doesn't do anything.
It's just a skeleton, if you will.
So the annotation will be applied at the field level.
We have to specify the target.
It will be retained runtime and it's going to carry a default message of invalid age.
And from the cheat sheet we have to copy the obligatory groups and payload parameters needed for constraint
annotations.
So here we'll say.
At Target.
And the target is going to be fields.
We're going to apply this annotation to Fields.
The retention will be runtime as we did before.
And let's go ahead and define this as a constraint that is going to be connected to a validator class.
So the logic that this constraint is going to use will be implemented inside of a validator.
And we've yet to actually define this class, so ignore the error for now.
The next step was to define your message groups and payload parameters.
That is something that you can just grab from your cheat sheet that I will do right now.
I'm grabbing it from a different screen.
All right.
Import the payload.
And these are just the boilerplate parameters that you would need to include in any constraint annotation.
I wouldn't put too much thought into it.
And to get rid of this error, let's go ahead and create the Age Validator class.
The Age validator.
For it to validate constraints, it needs to implement the constraint validator interface.
The first thing you have to pass in is the annotation type, followed by what type of value are you
validating?
In this case, it's going to be a date.
And now if we override the is valid method that is defined in this interface.
You'll notice that it's already focused on validating a data value.
So when a post request is made, let's just go through the process.
When a post request is made, it's going to be carrying the payload from the form.
Spring Boot creates a user object using your empty constructor.
It's going to populate every single field in that object with a value.
As the object is being populated, it's going to validate each field and as it's about to validate your
data field, it's going to use the validation logic that's connected to your age.
Annotation So the date value that was submitted by the user will come here and here we can check if
the user is over 18.
If they are, we'll return true.
Otherwise we'll return false.
If you look back at the article, there should be logic already there.
We don't have to reinvent the wheel.
Do we have to import data?
It's already there.
Cool.
So now we can say return.
Age.
Is bigger than 18.
So if this returns true, then there won't be any errors in the binding result.
But if this returns false, then our binding result will carry an error for the date of birth fields.
And here I cheat to say constraint is validated by h validator class import time unit.
All right, no more errors.
And I think we're ready to test this out.
Let's run.
Now.
By all means, feel free to run this application in debug mode.
Put some breakpoints here and you'll see that spring boot is going to be using your is valid method
to validate the date field that gets passed in, which is really cool.
But since we already covered this in the lessons, I won't do that now in the interest of time.
So here I'll say Arthur Pendragon, King Arthur.
Normal email, but they're going to be under 18.
And it returns success, weirdly enough.
Return age is bigger than a teen.
The age was smaller than a teen.
So what happened?
Hmm.
Let's apply some breakpoints that this even get hit.
I did apply the age annotation.
Okay.
We'll go back here.
We'll see.
Arthur.
Dragon King Arthur.
Let's give a random date.
It does reach here.
Okay.
What is the age?
The age?
It says the age is zero.
Zero is not bigger than 18.
So this should return false.
Huh?
It randomly works now.
Well, you can't write this stuff.
Anyways.
All right, anyways, let me just make sure I didn't miss any steps.
I did miss a step in task two, telling us to apply the annotation and override the default message.
The annotation is something I've already applied, but back here.
I can say.
Message is equal to must be at least 18.
Will it override it?
Let's try it out.
It does.
Beautiful.
Now let's make Arthur.
Over 18.
I mean, he's really 1500 years old, but we won't travel that far.
Let's say February 1939.
Beautiful.
All right.
Task four is the username cannot contain any special characters.
So what we'll do is create another annotation for the username.
And what I'll do before anything is place these inside the same folder.
Or we'll create a new folder called Validation.
I'll put the age inside of it.
Put the age validator and the username.
Make sure to agree to the refactoring changes.
That way you don't have to redo the imports yourself.
It does it automatically.
And we need to define this as an annotation that we're going to apply at the field level.
At Target will be field.
Their attention will be runtime.
And this is a constraint that will be validated by username validator class.
All right, copy the boilerplate message groups and payload parameters.
Import the payload.
And now we can create our username validator.
For this to be able to validate constraints, it must implement the validation interface or sorry,
the constraint validator interface.
The first thing you have to pass in is the annotation that it will be validating and what type of value
are you validating in this case?
It's going to be a string.
So as soon as you implement the constraint validator interface, Spring Boot is going to recognize this
as a constraint validator, which means as it goes to start validating our user name.
Then what it's going to do is use this as valid method to do so.
And here we're going to return.
True.
If the string value that was inputted doesn't contain any special characters or uppercase characters,
we can do that by using the following code.
Import the right classes.
I must have imported the wrong thing.
Mature.
This should be Java.
You tell rejects, not log back.
Since we're dealing with rejects expressions regular expressions matures.
Find.
It should be mature.
I will update the learn the part article soon.
So what this will do is it will return false if the characters are between A to Z or is 0 to 9 A to
Z being lowercase if the characters are valid.
So what we need to do is return the opposite of what this evaluates to by putting a not operator.
So in this case, if the values are valid, then this expression will return true.
There will be no error in the binding result.
If invalid, this whole thing will return false and the binding result will register an error for the
user name field.
OC.
I think we're all done here.
Let's just run our app or test our app.
We'll say Arthur Pendragon.
I'll put an uppercase character here.
Arthur Pendragon.
Make him over 18.
Invalid age.
Silly me.
Invalid username.
And we're going to override this default.
Message.
And say.
Cannot contain.
You know what?
Let's get it right from learn.
The parts cannot contain special or uppercase characters.
All right.
Let's try resubmitting that.
Looking good.
Now I'll say Arthur Pendragon.
But I will add a special character like so.
And it does not allow special characters either.
And that is all for Workbook 3.3.
I really hope you enjoyed it.
If you were able to follow along so far, then the upcoming challenge should be a breeze for you.